# Using Entrez

Entrez is a search and retrieval system that integrates information from databases at NCBI. These databases include nucleotide sequences, protein sequences, macromolecular structures, whole genomes, and MEDLINE, through PubMed. GenBank is the NIH genetic sequence database, an annotated collection of all publicly available DNA sequences.

What makes Entrez more powerful than many services is that most of its records are linked to other records, both within a given database (such as Nucleotide) and between databases. Nucleotide sequence records in the Nucleotide database are linked to the PubMed citation of the article in which the sequences were published. Protein sequence records are linked to the nucleotide sequence from which the protein was translated.

Go to Entrez [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sites/gquery] website you can see all the NCBI databases. If you enter a query in the search box you will see the number of hits in each database next to the name of that database. If you click on the name of a database you get a list of the hits, and you can look at the results. Also, a new query box and a pull-down menu of all the databases will appear. To go back to the start page, click on the link called Entrez above the pull-down menu. To make a new search, you select a database and enter one or more search terms in the query box. You can search with different criteria, such as accession number, the name of a gene or the name of an organism. If you enter several search terms they are automatically combined (you don't have to write AND). To force Entrez to search for a phrase, enter double quotes (" ") around the phrase.

When you enter a search term, the whole GenBank entry  is searched for your query. This is not very efficient since in almost all cases you get sequences that you don't want. To get a better result you can limit your search using ‘Limits’ (above the search box) so that your search term has to appear in a specific field in the GenBank record. You can also combine two or more different searches using ‘History’ in 'Advanced search'. You can use the drop box under ‘Find related data’ which is located in the middle of the right panel to go to different Entrez databases. Note that these options are only available once you have clicked on one of the databases and arrived at the second search page (not at the Entrez start page).
